README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img width="100%" src="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/blob/main/assets/logo.png?raw=true"><br /><br />
  <strong>A command-line tool built to obtain in-depth, actionable information about GitHub repositories that is often challenging to decipher manually</strong><br /><br />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://python.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11-blue?logo=python&logoColor=white" alt="Python Version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/AryanK1511/github-echo?style=social" alt="GitHub Stars">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/graphs/contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="GitHub Contributors">
  </a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/issues">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="GitHub Issues">
  </a>
</p>

## Table of Contents

1. [Usage](#usage)
   - [Installing via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)
   - [Running the Tool Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)
2. [Installing via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)
   - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
   - [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions)
     - [For macOS/Linux](#for-macoslinux)
     - [For Windows](#for-windows)
3. [Running the Tool Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)
   - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites-1)
   - [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions-1)
     - [1. Clone the Repository](#1-clone-the-repository)
     - [2. Set Up Environment Variables](#2-set-up-environment-variables)
     - [3. Install Required Dependencies](#3-install-required-dependencies)
     - [4. Running the CLI Tool Locally](#4-running-the-cli-tool-locally)
       - [On Windows](#on-windows)
       - [On macOS and Linux](#on-macos-and-linux)
4. [Additional Information](#additional-information)
   - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
5. [Further Usage Instructions](#further-usage-instructions)
   - [Arguments](#arguments)
   - [Options](#options)
6. [More about `github-echo`](#more-about-github-echo)
   - [Information drawn from the GitHub API](#information-drawn-from-the-github-api)
   - [Gemini GenAI Integration](#gemini-genai-integration)
     - [How It Works](#how-it-works)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Author](#author)

## Usage

You can use this tool in two ways:

1. **[Install via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)**: Quickly set up the tool with a simple `pip install`.
2. **[Run Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)**: Clone the repository and run it directly on your machine for development or testing.

## Installing via `PyPi`

### Prerequisites

1. **Python3+**: Ensure `Python3` is installed on your system. You can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

### Setup Instructions

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Install the tool via PyPi:

   ```bash
   pip install gh-echo
   ```

3. Once installed, you need to set the required environment variables in your shell configuration. Here are the steps for different systems:

#### For macOS/Linux

- Open your terminal.
- Add the environment variables to your shell configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.)

  ```bash
  export GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY='Your Google Gemini API Key'
  export GITHUB_API_TOKEN='Your GitHub API Token'
  export GITHUB_API_VERSION='2022-11-28'
  ```

- Run `source ~/.bashrc` (or `source ~/.zshrc` for Zsh) to apply the changes.

#### For Windows

- Open PowerShell as Administrator.
- Set the environment variables:

  ```powershell
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY', 'Your Google Gemini API Key', 'User')
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GITHUB_API_TOKEN', 'Your GitHub API Token', 'User')
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GITHUB_API_VERSION', '2022-11-28', 'User')
  ```

- Now you can run the CLI tool from anywhere in your terminal:

  ```bash
  gh-echo <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
  ```

  Example:

  ```bash
  gh-echo https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
  ```

## Running the tool locally

### Prerequisites

1. **Python3+**: Ensure `Python3` is installed on your system. You can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. **Git**: Ensure Git is installed. You can download it from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/).

### Setup Instructions

#### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo
cd github-echo
```

#### 2. Set Up Environment Variables

For running the tool locally, create a `.env` file in the root of the repository and add the following content:

```text
GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY='Your API Key'
GITHUB_API_TOKEN='Your API Token'
GITHUB_API_VERSION='2022-11-28'
```

- Replace `'Your API Key'` with your [Google Gemini API Key](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).
- Replace `'Your API Token'` with your [GitHub Access Token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens).

#### 3. Install Required Dependencies

Install the necessary Python packages using `pipenv`:

```bash
pip install pipenv
pipenv shell
pipenv install
```

This will activate the virtual environment and will also install all the dependencies that aare required.

#### 4. Running the CLI Tool Locally

Once the environment is set up and dependencies are installed, you can run the tool locally.

##### On Windows

1. Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```cmd
   cd path\to\github-echo
   ```

3. Run the script:

   ```cmd
   python _main.py <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
   ```

   Example:

   ```cmd
   python _main.py https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
   ```

##### On macOS and Linux

1. Open Terminal.

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/github-echo
   ```

3. Make the script executable (if needed):

   ```bash
   chmod +x _main.py
   ```

4. Run the script:

   ```bash
   ./_main.py <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
   ```

   Example:

   ```bash
   ./_main.py https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
   ```

## Additional Information

- **For Help**: Run `./_main.py --help` or `python _main.py --help` to see the available options and usage instructions.
- **For Version**: Use the `--version` or `-v` flag to get the version number.

### Troubleshooting

- **Invalid GitHub URL**: Ensure the URL is correct and follows the format `https://github.com/owner/repo`.
- **Connection Issues**: Check your internet connection and API tokens.
- **Permission Errors**: On Windows, ensure you have the necessary permissions to run scripts. On macOS/Linux, ensure the script has execution permissions.

## Further Usage Instructions

```bash
_main.py [OPTIONS] GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL COMMAND [ARGS]..._
```

### Arguments

| Argument                | Tsype | Description                                 | Default | Required |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `github_repository_url` | TEXT  | The URL of the GitHub repository to analyze | None    | Yes      |

### Options

| Option      | Shortcut | Type | Description                | Default |
| ----------- | -------- | ---- | -------------------------- | ------- |
| `--version` | `-v`     | Flag | Get the version number     |         |
| `--output`  | `-o`     | PATH | Path to the output file    | None    |
| `--help`    |          | Flag | Show this message and exit |         |

## More about `github-echo`

### Information drawn from the GitHub API

The tool fetches the following key information about GitHub repositories:

- **Repository Metadata**: Name, description, owner, URL, and other basic information.
- **Contributors**: Details about contributors, including their usernames, IDs, and avatars.
- **Issues and Pull Requests**: Information about open and closed issues and pull requests, including titles, states, and comments.
- **Labels**: Labels associated with issues and pull requests.
- **Activity Data**: Data related to repository activity, such as commit history and contributions.

### Gemini GenAI Integration

**Repo Insights** uses Gemini GenAI to analyze the fetched repository data. Gemini GenAI provides advanced capabilities for:

- **Summary Generation**: Creating comprehensive summaries based on the repository data.
- **Insight Extraction**: Identifying key patterns and insights that are not immediately obvious from raw data.

**How It Works**:

1. **Data Fetching**: The tool queries GitHub's API to gather repository data.
2. **Data Processing**: The fetched data is processed and formatted.
3. **AI Analysis**: The processed data is sent to Gemini GenAI, which analyzes it and generates a detailed summary.
4. **Summary Output**: The summary is either displayed in the terminal or saved to a specified file.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve **Repo Insights**. If you have suggestions, bug reports, or enhancements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Author

[Aryan Khurana](https://www.github.com/AryanK1511)

Commit message:

Modify documentation to use poetry instead of pipenv

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img width="100%" src="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/blob/main/assets/logo.png?raw=true"><br /><br />
  <strong>A command-line tool built to obtain in-depth, actionable information about GitHub repositories that is often challenging to decipher manually</strong><br /><br />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://python.org">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.11-blue?logo=python&logoColor=white" alt="Python Version">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/AryanK1511/github-echo?style=social" alt="GitHub Stars">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/graphs/contributors">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="GitHub Contributors">
  </a>
  <a href="https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo/issues">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/AryanK1511/github-echo" alt="GitHub Issues">
  </a>
</p>

## Table of Contents

1. [Usage](#usage)
   - [Installing via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)
   - [Running the Tool Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)
2. [Installing via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)
   - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
   - [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions)
     - [For macOS/Linux](#for-macoslinux)
     - [For Windows](#for-windows)
3. [Running the Tool Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)
   - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites-1)
   - [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions-1)
     - [1. Clone the Repository](#1-clone-the-repository)
     - [2. Set Up Environment Variables](#2-set-up-environment-variables)
     - [3. Install Required Dependencies](#3-install-required-dependencies)
     - [4. Running the CLI Tool Locally](#5-running-the-cli-tool-locally)
       - [On Windows](#on-windows)
       - [On macOS and Linux](#on-macos-and-linux)
4. [Additional Information](#additional-information)
   - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
5. [Further Usage Instructions](#further-usage-instructions)
   - [Arguments](#arguments)
   - [Options](#options)
6. [More about `github-echo`](#more-about-github-echo)
   - [Information drawn from the GitHub API](#information-drawn-from-the-github-api)
   - [Gemini GenAI Integration](#gemini-genai-integration)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)
9. [Author](#author)

## Usage

You can use this tool in two ways:

1. **[Install via PyPi](#installing-via-pypi)**: Quickly set up the tool with a simple `pip install`.
2. **[Run Locally](#running-the-tool-locally)**: Clone the repository and run it directly on your machine for development or testing.

## Installing via `PyPi`

### Prerequisites

1. **Python3+**: Ensure `Python3` is installed on your system. You can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

### Setup Instructions

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Install the tool via PyPi:

   ```bash
   pip install gh-echo
   ```

3. Once installed, you need to set the required environment variables in your shell configuration. Here are the steps for different systems:

#### For macOS/Linux

- Open your terminal.
- Add the environment variables to your shell configuration file (e.g., `.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.)

  ```bash
  export GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY='Your Google Gemini API Key'
  export GITHUB_API_TOKEN='Your GitHub API Token'
  export GITHUB_API_VERSION='2022-11-28'
  ```

- Run `source ~/.bashrc` (or `source ~/.zshrc` for Zsh) to apply the changes.

#### For Windows

- Open PowerShell as Administrator.
- Set the environment variables:

  ```powershell
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY', 'Your Google Gemini API Key', 'User')
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GITHUB_API_TOKEN', 'Your GitHub API Token', 'User')
  [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('GITHUB_API_VERSION', '2022-11-28', 'User')
  ```

- Now you can run the CLI tool from anywhere in your terminal:

  ```bash
  gh-echo <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
  ```

  Example:

  ```bash
  gh-echo https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
  ```

## Running the Tool Locally

### Prerequisites

1. **Python3+**: Ensure `Python3` is installed on your system. You can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
2. **Git**: Ensure Git is installed. You can download it from [git-scm.com](https://git-scm.com/).
3. **Poetry**: Install Poetry by following the instructions at [poetry.eustace.io](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation).

### Setup Instructions

#### 1. Clone the Repository

First, clone the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AryanK1511/github-echo
cd github-echo
```

#### 2. Set Up Environment Variables

For running the tool locally, create a `.env` file in the root of the repository and add the following content:

```text
GOOGLE_GEMINI_API_KEY='Your API Key'
GITHUB_API_TOKEN='Your API Token'
GITHUB_API_VERSION='2022-11-28'
```

- Replace `'Your API Key'` with your [Google Gemini API Key](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey).
- Replace `'Your API Token'` with your [GitHub Access Token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens).

#### 3. Install Required Dependencies

Install the necessary Python packages using Poetry:

```bash
poetry install
```

This will install all required dependencies and set up a virtual environment.

#### 4. Activate the Virtual Environment

Activate the Poetry virtual environment with:

```bash
poetry shell
```

#### 5. Running the CLI Tool Locally

Once the environment is set up and dependencies are installed, you can run the tool locally.

##### On Windows

1. Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```cmd
   cd path\to\github-echo
   ```

3. Run the script:

   ```cmd
   python _main.py <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
   ```

   Example:

   ```cmd
   python _main.py https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
   ```

##### On macOS and Linux

1. Open Terminal.

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/github-echo
   ```

3. Make the script executable (if needed):

   ```bash
   chmod +x _main.py
   ```

4. Run the script:

   ```bash
   python _main.py <GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL> [OPTIONS]
   ```

   Example:

   ```bash
   python _main.py https://github.com/user/repo --output results.md
   ```

## Additional Information

- **For Help**: Run `./_main.py --help` or `python _main.py --help` to see the available options and usage instructions.
- **For Version**: Use the `--version` or `-v` flag to get the version number.

### Troubleshooting

- **Invalid GitHub URL**: Ensure the URL is correct and follows the format `https://github.com/owner/repo`.
- **Connection Issues**: Check your internet connection and API tokens.
- **Permission Errors**: On Windows, ensure you have the necessary permissions to run scripts. On macOS/Linux, ensure the script has execution permissions.

## Further Usage Instructions

```bash
_main.py [OPTIONS] GITHUB_REPOSITORY_URL COMMAND [ARGS]..._
```

### Arguments

| Argument                | Tsype | Description                                 | Default | Required |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `github_repository_url` | TEXT  | The URL of the GitHub repository to analyze | None    | Yes      |

### Options

| Option      | Shortcut | Type | Description                | Default |
| ----------- | -------- | ---- | -------------------------- | ------- |
| `--version` | `-v`     | Flag | Get the version number     |         |
| `--output`  | `-o`     | PATH | Path to the output file    | None    |
| `--help`    |          | Flag | Show this message and exit |         |

## More about `github-echo`

### Information drawn from the GitHub API

The tool fetches the following key information about GitHub repositories:

- **Repository Metadata**: Name, description, owner, URL, and other basic information.
- **Contributors**: Details about contributors, including their usernames, IDs, and avatars.
- **Issues and Pull Requests**: Information about open and closed issues and pull requests, including titles, states, and comments.
- **Labels**: Labels associated with issues and pull requests.
- **Activity Data**: Data related to repository activity, such as commit history and contributions.

### Gemini GenAI Integration

**Repo Insights** uses Gemini GenAI to analyze the fetched repository data. Gemini GenAI provides advanced capabilities for:

- **Summary Generation**: Creating comprehensive summaries based on the repository data.
- **Insight Extraction**: Identifying key patterns and insights that are not immediately obvious from raw data.

**How It Works**:

1. **Data Fetching**: The tool queries GitHub's API to gather repository data.
2. **Data Processing**: The fetched data is processed and formatted.
3. **AI Analysis**: The processed data is sent to Gemini GenAI, which analyzes it and generates a detailed summary.
4. **Summary Output**: The summary is either displayed in the terminal or saved to a specified file.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve **Repo Insights**. If you have suggestions, bug reports, or enhancements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add new feature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Author

[Aryan Khurana](https://www.github.com/AryanK1511)
